Dougy you're on an interesting fellow
hey everyone Greg here welcome back to
the universe and our breakdowns for Twin
Peaks the return this is episode 6 now
you'll notice that Ryan is not with me
this week as he is away at e3 he'll be
returning next week and we'll get back
to our regular scheduled programming as
we answer your questions and theories on
everything going on so far in the season
now first make sure to subscribe to get
spot universe you can stay up to date
with the rest of our TV coverage we got
American Gods covered by chastity and
buddy as well as Fargo covered by the
other Ryan now before we get started I
just want to give a quick shout out to
the legend Gene Kelly [ __ ] Gene Kelly
you [ __ ]
Thank You Albert
all right so let's jump right in we
finally know who Albert and Cole were
talking about during the Blue Rose
conversation don't know where she lives
I know where she drinks it's Diane who
of course is played by Laura Dern the
second Albert said Diane I think we all
knew would be dirt Diane
7:30 a.m. at where a 24 after 26 years
we finally are introduced to the women
who long ago received Dale Cooper 's
dictated tapes and sent him a pair of
earplugs
now during is a long time Lynch
collaborator having starred in blue
velvet wall dead heart and Inland Empire
next up Balthasar Gettys character
reappears after the last time we saw him
in the Roadhouse at the end of part two
but this episode formally introduces us
to the criminal character named red have
you ever studied your hand red engages
in some criminal activity with local
[ __ ] richard horn and then shows him
a very creepy magic trick
the whole scene felt very blue velvet
the only thing missing was someone
huffing gas
so last week Lorne was sexually
harassing women at a Roadhouse and this
week in an attempt to top his actions
from last week he runs over a kid and
barely seems to notice or care he's
hopped up on whatever that new drug is
and is completely blinded by his own
rage just from red calling him kid kid
[ __ ] you man I'm actually pretty happy
that Richard isn't the kingpin of this
drug organization he seems to just be a
tool to explore this dark youthful vice
entering Twin Peaks these [ __ ] little
towns are pushover law enforcement's
asleep at the wheel [ __ ] Sheriff
here's like 90 years old or something
Harry Dean freakin Stanton finally
returns the last time we saw Carl rod
was in fire walk with me as a proprietor
of the fat trout trailer park
apparently this is the new fat trout
trailer park that is located closer to
Twin Peaks in a secret history of Twin
Peaks the Trailer Park moved locations
now one of the most interesting parts
about Carl's return this week after
witnessing the hit and run he sees the
young boy's spirit leave his body and
ascend to the sky now his visions could
stem from his abduction as a child with
the log lady
so already gone places
I just want to stay where I am and it
looks like dougie isn't the only one to
have weird visions from beyond as we
mentioned earlier the sound design is
done by David Lynch I noticed a few
things before the hit and run that play
well in Lynch's audio-visual themes and
Twin Peaks Lynch sets us up with this
idea like well-being of a small town
America represented by Carl on the bench
watching the trees as the birds chirp in
the background now this too good to be
true happiness doesn't last too long as
Carl looks back up to the sky and
notices that the birds have stopped
chirping it's just the wind blowing
through the trees with that ominous hum
this segues right into Richard barreling
down the road as his truck's engine is
roaring in the background now I may be
thinking too far into this but I see
this as nature versus industry as
Richard represents this drugged youth
culture taking over twin peaks and
literally running over the idyllic
vision of the town
I knew this episode is going to be
pretty brutal after we got that shot of
the traffic lights given a sense of
loneliness and impending doom to come so
Hawk finally finds his clue the scene
starts off with Hawk dropping a coin
into a stall of the men's restroom the
face on the coin was Native American and
perhaps he recalled the log ladies
advice about his heritage the way you
will find it has something to do with
your heritage he then noticed that the
door in the stall was created by the Nez
Perce manufacturing now the Nez Perce
which is Hawks tribe are mentioned a lot
in the secret history of twin peaks as
they are the largest tribe Lewis and
Clark meet between the Missouri River
and the Pacific coast in mark frost book
in an excerpt that will probably give
Ken Burns an aneurysm the tribe brings
Meriwether Lewis to their chief twisted
hair who gives him the Al Cave ring back
to present-day hawk rips the door open
to find some random pages this is most
likely Laura Palmer's secret diary long
story short Annie Blackburn played by
Heather Graham tells Laura I've been
with Dale and Laura the good Dale is in
the lodge and he can't believe write it
in your diary now a lot would need to be
explained for this to work did Mike
leave those pages in there did leland
leave those pages in there the way the
show is going i fully expect this to
probably just be a recipe for chocolate
bunnies it's not about the bunny okay
I'll admit it I'm starting to grow tired
the dougie Jones Eraserhead Cooper
character I really hope he snaps out of
it soon or finds the light yet the good
news is we might not have to wait too
long one can look at Badalamenti score
finally kicking into high gear in this
episode this could be a score rising
back from the depths below as Cooper
slowly regains his memory
[Music]
even Mike's tired of dougie get might
calls out from the Black Lodge to try to
wake cooper up learn yeah good advice
Mike Thanks
we then see Dale Cooper somehow manages
to save Dougie's job this week with the
help of the green lights again dougie
seems to make this ladder staircase do
it all across several pages notably
though all the drawn cases were presided
over by a shady colleague Anthony
apparently Moen saw something in dougie
scribbles that he liked which he
probably interpreted the notes as a
secret clued Anthony shady business
dealings this scene was absolutely
hilarious thank you
alright so coops got the coffee
he's got the suit and he's got the
concept of being an agent again what do
you guys think is gonna be the final
piece to bring him back let me know in
the comment section below I have a
feeling it's gonna be a familiar face
maybe Audrey's that brings him back or
maybe a badge he just needs a badge I
don't know now whatever Dale needs to
wake up you better [ __ ] hurry because
I to spike is coming to stab him in the
face Duncan Todd reappears for a brief
moment when he's pinged by some
mysterious entity on his computer which
again may have something to do with Phil
Jeffries or this unknown billionaire
this leads to Todd sending an IKE to
take out Tammy for not following through
with Dougie's murder and now Ike has a
sight set on dougie now Mike may need to
be a little bit more direct with dougie
the next time he sends him a message
like a little man with an ice picks
coming to stab you in the face right
finally I just want to bring up how
bizarrely awesome Naomi Watts acting has
been we are not wealthy people we try
cheap terrible cars we are the 99
percenters and we are [ __ ] on enough and
we are certainly not going to be [ __ ] on
by the likes of you
in this scene Janie was able to talk
down the thugs fifty-thousand with
compound interest to only 20,000 keep
note that these two thugs are not the
same dudes we saw earlier in the series
this leads back to the idea that the
guys from earlier are set on a
completely different mission than the
guys who just want this 20k from Dougie
oh and Jeremy Davies loved the stache by
the way we are living in a dark dark age
and you are part of the problem now some
quick notes and Easter eggs I noticed in
this episode now the intersection in the
hit-and-run looks to be the same part of
town or Mike Phillip Gerard yells at
Leland and Laura and fire walk with me
the famous spark would in 21 lights
finally appear in
episode after that hit-and-run we can
hear bottle women t-score kicking in
which may be a callback to his
composition for city of the lost
children a new character shows up with
Karl and his car ride in a town and
mentions the name Linda we may finally
have our Linda to our Richard all we
know so far is that she's in a
wheelchair and she may be a veteran due
to Karl blurting out war while gene
Kelly's quote was awesome I also love
the line Kate give to writes Oh bet she
did we may have finally heard that
crappy hip-hop track for the last time
with the death of Tammy I just
attributed that song to an audio visual
cue for the audience to remind us who
she is also I just want to bring up a
quick note about Chad you could take big
soldier cue Chad you and everybody who
looks like you and finally I want to end
this on the same note as part 6 has with
Sharon Van Etten's she's one of my
favorite performers and they absolutely
love that Lynch had her played terrific
in the Roadhouse while Lynch has been
known to bring men to tears on camera
multiple times throughout the history of
the show well Anton can do the same love
surance music a stupidly large amount
and have for many years and I'm a bit
overwhelmed by this thank you so much
for watching now I know we probably
missed something in this episode so let
me know what it is in the comment
section below or just hit me up on
Twitter at Greg ft 155 and as always
keep it here the GameSpot universe bye
bye